---
title: "Final Reflection: Social Justice"
summary: >
  A discussion of how my awareness and understanding of social justice have
  grown.
---

There are many things that can divide us from one another, such as socioeconomic
status, ethnicity, cultural barriers, language barriers, or access to
healthcare.  There are many reasons for which an individual might be
discriminated against such as age or sexual orientation.  Certain circumstances
can hinder access to participation in meaningful occupations.  For example,
victims of sex trafficking are often forced by their captors to participate in
non-preferred occupations, and are often prohibited from participating in
activities of daily living.

It is also important to consider the role played by occupational
marginalization. Occupational marginalization is when people with disabilities
are excluded from being able to participate something they enjoy (e.g., sports).
This differs from occupational deprivation, which is when something outside of
your control prevents you from doing an important or meaningful occupation;
e.g., aboriginal women and men living in the amazon are deprived of the
opportunity to ski by virtue of their isolated locale (Townsend & Wilcock,
2004).

I also think we need to be cognizant of ageism.  When we are younger we tend to
think we won’t be treated the way the older generation is treated today usually
in nursing care facilities, (e.g. take showers once a week, or not be asked
about treatment options such as living in an individual room without anyone
else) (Hayes, 2013). We can’t ignore the important issue of ageism—we need
changes to our healthcare system.

We also need to be careful not to allow discrimination against the LGBT
community.  We should unite people of different sexual orientations to advocate
for the LGBT community, rather than leaving the LGBT community to fight their
battle against oppression alone.

My understanding of social justice has been expanded during my time at Touro. I
grew as a student by being exposed to facts, figures and the perspectives of
people from many different marginalized populations.  This helped me to develop
a better understanding of oppression. While at Touro, I constantly found myself
thinking about helping different people groups to provide them with social
justice.  I realize I can't actually help everyone, but I think I have learned
to narrow my goals to be more realistic.  I can focus on oppressed groups that I
relate to, or am a part of, and be their voice; I can help those who are
marginalized feel empowered by providing occupational justice.

My experience at Touro has helped me to become less judgmental towards
particular people groups such as the LGBT group, and victims of sex trafficking.
I have gained a sense of compassion for all groups who are occupationally
deprived.

I feel I have the ability to accurately identify if an individual might be
experiencing occupational deprivation, occupational isolation, occupational
alienation, occupational marginalization, or occupational imbalance. I can use
my knowledge and personal understanding to be sensitive to clients who are
experiencing any of these, as well as to to advocate for them. 

Serving food to older adults at the multigenerational center allowed me to treat
older adults with respect and treat them the way I want to be treated when I am
older. I listened intently and made sure to meet their need immediately.

I helped in the fight against occupational isolation by participating in the
Musclar Dystrophy Association (MDA) walk.   The MDA provides opportunities and
resources for children with muscular dystrophy so they can experience meaningful
occupations.

I fought against occupational marginalization by advocating for a student with
vision impairment.  Due to her impairment, the basic expectations of her
education were being ignored. She was deprived from receiving the best education
due to outside circumstances that could be resolved.

I participated in fighting occupational deprivation by making meals at three
square, which provides meals for families in need.

### References
{: .references }

* Hayes, S. (2013). Trafficked: The terrifying true story of a British girl
  forced into the sex trade. Napperville, IL:   Sourcebooks, Inc.
* Townsend, E., Wilcock, A. A. (2004). Occupational justice and client centered
  practice: A dialogue in progress. Canadian Journal of Occupational Therapy, 71
  (2), 75-83.
{: .references }

