---
title: Final Reflection
---

My understanding of social justice has broadened while attending the
occupational therapy program at Touro University Nevada. Touro University Nevada
has provided me with many different opportunities to go into the community
through different class assignments.  For example, I had the opportunity to
interview a victim of sex trafficking. This interview really changed my
perspective and helped me to become more sensitive to others.  My experiences at
Touro helped me to recognize the importance of equality and justice for all
people, not just those I agree with or find easily understandable.  I am more
intentionally proactive in my community, and look for opportunities to  help the
marginalized or oppressed. I have learned to be more open-minded, listen to
others, and  go out of my comfort zone to help others. I have learned that I
don’t know everything about the marginalized or the oppressed; I have become
more willing to listen and understand them.  The growth and understanding I have
acquired will help me as a practitioner to be kind, understanding and willing to
go the extra mile to make sure my clients’ concerns are heard. It’s important to
make sure each and every client is free from occupational deprivation,
occupational marginalization, occupational isolation, occupational imbalance.

Through the opportunities at Touro, I have learned how to be a self-starter and
gained the resources to pave my own path when seeking information. Information
is powerful, and so is knowing how to find it. I have learned where to find the
knowledge I need to be an effective therapist. For example, I know that
evidence-based practice is important in finding effective interventions and
providing clients with the knowledge to make informed decisions; I can find this
information in the American Journal of Occupational Therapy (AJOT), or OT
Practice Magazine, among other resources; I can join my state association and
use it to connect with informational groups (e.g., a pediatrics interest group)
that will help me learn from the clinical experience of others.  Knowledge is
powerful: the more you know, the better you can equip clients to make informed
decisions. I can provide the best care for my clients if I know how to evaluate
and administer occupation-based assessments, and I keep abreast of changes to
the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM), as well as new
treatments, discoveries, and diagnoses.

It is important to remember that, as occupational therapists, we don’t just
provide medical services—we are serving our patients and humanity at large by
helping each patient to live the type of life they want.  We accomplish this
through individualized treatment, but also through public service, volunteer
opportunities, and philanthropy.  I grew up with the idea that my life was
intended to be used to serve others; I have chosen occupational therapy as a
tool to that end alone.

