---
title: "Final Reflection: Leadership"
summary: >
  A discussion of my development, growth, strengths, and weaknesses as a leader.
---

My primary leadership model is being a servant leader.  I try to be always
giving time, energy, and resources to others. I want to serve first instead of
lead first; this will inspire me to lead. Leaders that serve will grow, become
healthier, and more inclined to serve others (Greenleaf, 1982). I enjoy this
type of leader and I hope to be one of these leaders. My secondary leadership
model is “model the way” from Kouzes and Posner Leadership Inventory (2003). I
believe leaders need to stand for something, believe in something, care about
something, and be the example they want others to follow.

I viewed myself as a leader before I came to Touro University Nevada (TUN) for
the occupational therapy school.  However, at TUN I developed into a stronger
leader and learned from my mistakes as a leader. I wasn’t aware of all my
strengths and weaknesses as a leader until I started to really stretch myself as
a leader at TUN and also study it in our Leadership class. I knew there were
different types of leaders, but I could not have categorized them.  I didn’t
realize the breadth of my own leadership; I tend to challenge the norms, and I
lead by refusing to conform to what everyone else is doing.  I usually stand out
because of what I believe.  One of my great strengths is my solid character;
I choose to do the right thing, even under pressure. One of my weaknesses is my
ineloquent public speaking; my nerves tend to get the best of me and I start
fumbling my words.  I have learned to realize this and I have to be extremely
conscientious of my volume and tone of voice. One of my other strengths is I am
goal oriented and can focus for long periods of time. This is something I
learned about myself during the program. I have a better understanding of my
strengths and weaknesses, but I hope to further improve this understanding.

My attitudes about leadership have changed. I have learned to be more
self-started as a leader. I have led in the past, but I tend not to self-start
or adapt to new experiences quickly. Here at Touro I volunteered for leadership
positions; I have had to go outside my comfort zone, talk to many strangers, and
provide leadership opportunities for myself. In the past, leadership
opportunities seemed handed to me, but while I was a Touro I had to work harder
to produce for these opportunities with fewer resources available.  Instead of
others delegating leadership opportunities to me, at Touro I had to create the
leadership opportunities myself.  It was hard to go out and find leadership
opportunities, but it forced me to develop as a leader.

Through all my leadership experiences I have learned to be more confident in my
decisions and to share my opinion.  I have learned to take more risks as a
leader, even when it uncomfortable. I have grown as a leader by better
understanding my strengths and weaknesses and being more cognizant of them. I
have learned to capitalize on my strengths and work on improving areas of
weaknesses.

I have exercised servant leadership by organizing a donation drive to collect
toiletries for abused women and children; I served by collecting the items and
taking them down to the donation center.  I also volunteered my time, effort and
resources to serve as the Vice President of the Geriatric Interest Group. I’m
committed to making time to provide opportunities to serve older adults, so I
can serve the older adult population with other students.  I believe in the
importance of caring for the elderly and treating older adults with respect.  I
also learned to lead others, by trying to convince others to join our club on
Club Day.  I also displayed leadership when I talked to older adults about
ceasing tobacco use.  I served in my daily by having open conversation with
co-workers and others and giving them practical steps to stop smoking. I led the
way by not smoking myself and staying true to what I believe in.

### References
{: .references}

* Greenleaf, R. (1982). The Servant as Leader. Robert C. Greenleaf Center.
* Kouzes, J., & Posner, B. (2003). Leadership Practices Inventory: Leadership
  Development Planner, San Francisco: Pfeiffer.
{: .references}

