---
title: "Semester 2&mdash;OCCT 526: Child-based Research Review and reflection"
summary: "Parental involvement in early intervention services"
pdf: s2_occt526_cbrr.pdf
---
In my first fieldwork experience in early intervention services I observed
parents who did not feel satisfied with the family-centered care they were
receiving. I wanted to see which factors encourage or inhibit
family-centered practice in the occupational therapy intervention process;
this paper was a great opportunity to dig into it. I wish the authors of the
source article had stated the questions they asked the parents whose
children were receiving occupational therapy services. I think this was a
weakness in their study; it would have been nice if they had provided more
results to help the reader decide if they categorized the data correctly in
the designated themes they chose. I learned that time and support were
central themes that were brought to the researchers attention. Some families
who received early intervention services felt they didn't receive enough
support or time during intervention services. When providing occupational
therapy services within early intervention, I will remember to remember the
perspective of the families that felt overwhelmed in trying to juggle work,
household demands and care-taking. It is important to help educate the
families about the importance of being involved in the intervention plan and
make accommodations to the families by implementing interesting activities
to improve parental involvement. Another option occupational therapists
should keep in mind is providing audio or a different visual educational
tools like videos to accommodate to their schedules or preferred learning
style. I would like to see more research about why these parents wouldn’t
read the handouts. It would be interesting to see if they would learn better
with different teaching methods. There was clearly a communication problem;
the cause of the parents' non-involvement in the intervention process was
inconclusive. I wonder if the parents would be willing to listen to audio
recordings about the same educational material; they could listen while they
performed other household tasks and they might be more willing to
participate in the intervention. The study didn’t seem to produce many other
questions and more research is needed on how to solve dissatisfaction of
occupational therapy services. This kept me wondering about the solutions to
the problem that was revealed in this study with some caregivers of those
who have a child receiving early intervention services.
