---
title: "Visual Perceptual Case Study and Reflection"
image: pediatric_ot.jpg
---

During my level II Fieldwork I incorporated the Dynamic Theory into my
intervention planning with a client. I learned about the Dynamic Theory in a
book called “Pediatric Occupational Therapy,” research by (Kramer & Hinojosa,
2010). Intervention guidelines within the dynamic theory include positive
reinforcement, which is used to help make desired behavior become more
automatic. Encouragement and praise are used to develop skill. I included these
guidelines during my intervention sessions with the student I used for my case
study. Mastery of skills allows the child the generalize the skill. Dynamic
Theory is a part of the visual perceptual framework too. It incorporates the
visual-perceptual deficits of a child and includes the child’s environment when
considering the intervention plan. Allow me to use an example activity from my
case study: drawing a heart. The complexity of the activity increased as it went
on. First, I had him trace a heart; then, I had him draw a heart by connecting
broken lines; then, he I had him draw a missing half of the picture to complete
it. He referred to a model for each phase of the activity. During the activity I
was very encouraging, included positive reinforcement for close approximations
of desired skill (visual perceptual skill), and graded the activity
appropriately.

This theory helped me to provide the right learning atmosphere, e.g., giving
encouragement and praise when he produced close approximations. This strategy
was beneficial with this particular child. He responded positively to the
praise, especially when his attempts corresponded closely to the model.

### References
{: .references}

* Kramer, P., Hinojosa, J. (2010). Frames of reference for pediatric
  occupational therapy (pp. 362-363). Baltimore, MD: Lippincott Williams
  &amp; Wilkins.
{: .references}
