---
title: "Semester 5 - OCCT 660: Occupation-based Treatment"
---

During Level II fieldwork, I worked with a child who had a hemiplegia on his
left side affected. His goal was to use scissors to cut along curved lines with
the paper stabilized. I chose a balloon toss activity to help work on bilateral
use of both hands as a preparatory activity. I also used the game “Red Light,
Green Light” (RLGL) before the activity to help with brain organization. He
really struggled with motor planning: usually, he would use his affected hand to
stabilize the paper, and use his unaffected hand to cut with the scissors; but,
he had a habit of going full-throttle with the scissors, and would cut all the
way across the paper instead of along the curved line. We played RLGL to help
him remember to stop and turn the paper before continuing his cut, turning the
circles to cut out the shape of a caterpillar’s body.

I spent some time getting to know this child, and discovered that he enjoys
learning about different bugs and snakes. This activity was challenging and
motivating to the child because we incorporated the use of bug shapes, which
appealed to his love of bugs. His main occupation is play; the occupation of
making a paper caterpillar was fun for him and was something he hadn't done
before. The activity itself was challenging to the client, due to his poor motor
planning. I graded it up and down when necessary. I provided an outline for the
circles that made up the body of the caterpillar. Before I began working with
him, he had been using a goose clamp to stabilize paper during cutting
activities. I observed this a few times, and saw that the goose clamp was
inhibiting his ability to turn the paper. I removed the paper from the goose
clamp and handed him the paper so he could stabilize it using his affected hand.
The paper was too big for him to work with, so I graded the activity down a bit
by cutting the excess paper around the circle so there was less paper to work
with. At first, I used hand-over-hand assistance to help him turn the paper, as
well as verbal cueing. As he progressed, I decreased the hand-over-hand
assistance and relied more on verbal cues to guide him in cutting along the
line.

Occupation-based activities are more meaningful for children—it really motivates
them.  I was fortunate to witness this at fieldwork. I enjoyed making the
activity interesting, engaging and challenging for the child. I found it easy to
read his facial expressions to gauge whether the activity was enjoyable. I think
that as a result of having him use his affected hand instead of the goose-clamp,
he felt a greater sense of control and was more inclined to turn the paper
himself. Once you build rapport it is easier to provide occupation-based
activities for the child; it is important to build that trusting relationship
and learn about the child’s interests.

