---
title: "Multisensory Approach and Reflection"
pdf: multisensory_approaches_woodward.pdf
---

I used the multisensory approach for intervention planning with several clients.
At the beginning of my fieldwork I knew about some multisensory applications,
but I did not have a full understanding of the multisensory approach. I had to
research various applications of the multisensory approach. I was unable to find
a single study that isolated the multisensory approach (Woodward & Swinth,
2002). I did, however, find a wealth of resources devoted to its numerous
applications. I included these multisensory approaches in my interventions.
These activity ideas guided my interventions. I also did a research study
comparing a multisensory intervention to a gross motor intervention, as well as
how each approach affected handwriting legibility. I still incorporated a
preparatory activity and handwriting for 10-15 minutes in my study. Research by
Woodward and Swinth (2002) guided my intervention planning and improved my
ability to work on just multisensory activities to strengthen my study. I used
this study with two of my clients to guide my intervention planning.

I gained knowledge and self-confidence by researching in my spare time. I also
gained confidence by actually implementing a study at the Clark County School
District and developing my own PICO question for research. I thought this
experience was beneficial and it has taught me the skills to continue to
implement evidence-based practice when I am practicing as an occupational
therapist in the future. I realized that I must be intentional to incorporate
evidence-based practice, and I need to keep developing this as a future
practitioner. Researching the multisensory approach was difficult because there
isn’t much research that isolates multisensory activities.  I enjoy learning,
and am always excited to learn about different interventions and their
effectiveness to become be the best practitioner I can be.

### References
{: .references }

* Woodward, S., & Swinth, Y. (2002). Multisensory approach to handwriting
  remediation: Perceptions of school-based occupational therapists. American
  Journal of Occupational 	Therapy, 56 (3), 305–312. doi: 10.5014/ajot.56.3.305
{: .references }
